README.md, before:

# Speechify Functional Test

## The Setup

#### API

- The code for the api is in the `api` directory. This piece is basically responsible for sending a random response from the array defined in `data.js`.
- The api returns a response in form of a JSON object containing contents. The content string is in form of a subset of SSML that is defined later here.

#### APP

- The project is a basic react app, and such should come with all of the standard built ins of react.
- Core logic for the project is hosted in `lib` folder.
- `content.ts` file in the lib folder is responsible for fetching and parsing content into sentences.
- `speech.ts` file contains an implementation for speech engine using the local window.speechSynthesis API.
- `useSpeech.ts` reactifies the speech engine implementation and returns the controls for playback and gives information about the currently spoken word and sentence.

# For Candidates:

## Goal

- Create an app that calls an api to fetch SSML content and then synthesizes this content into speech and renders a sentence and word UI for the same.

### Implementation Checklist:
- [ ] fetchContent: Fetch content from the API end point using a GET request.
- [ ] parseContentIntoSentences: Parse the fetched content into sentences based on rules described above (please refrain from using DOMParser or any built-in libraries to parse the fetched content)
- [ ] useSpeech: Hook that takes the current set of sentences and plays it using the speechEngine in speech.ts
- [ ] UI: A Controls component that allows you to play, pause and fetch new content. A Currently Reading component that displays the currently read sentence and word.

### SSML

- The API returns the content in form of an SSML string. This string will only contain a subset of SSML features: `<speak>`, `<p>`, `<s>`.
- The assignment only requires focus on the `<s>`element which defines the beginning and the end of the sentences.
- To complete this assignment, you must extract all the sentences from the SSML files ignoring everything else that is invalid.

#### Parsing the SSML.

- Your parser implementation should have the same output as below.

```ts
/**
 * input: "<speak><s>This is a sentence.</s><s>This is another sentence</s></speak>",
 * sentences: ['This is a sentence.', 'This is another sentence']
 *
 * input: <speak><s>This is a sentence.</s><s>This is another sentence</s>Some more text</speak>
 * sentences: ['This is a sentence.', 'This is another sentence']
 *
 * input: <speak><s>This is a sentence.</s><s>This is another sentence</s>Some more text<s>This is a longer piece of content</s></speak>
 * sentences: ['This is a sentence.', 'This is another sentence', 'This is a longer piece of content']
 */
```

### An example of a working project.
![Example](example.gif)

Commit message:

composition pattern/styling/component completion

README.md, after:

# Speechify Functional Test

# Message to the development team

I personally took the decision to complete the task on my own to learn from the selection process. The components were developed and separated based on the composition pattern, aiming to make it scalable and avoid excessive props to the child components. Also, I tought it was essential to improve the accessibility of it, spacially because it's a application that might be used by disabled people, so I changed some HTML tags. Also, concerning the styling part, even though it's a simple application, it was developed to be completely responsive.

One thing that I mostly evaluate is documentation, so I also complemented this README by adding some extra clarifications.

I cordially hope this piece of code speaks better for itself.

## The Setup

There're some details about the setup to be followed:

- After cloning the repository, both _./api_ and root directory should receive a _npm install_ command to install both data and interface dependencies
- Even though the _api_ directory has its own package.json file, the _npm run dev:server_ command should be ran at the top level directory of your cloned respository

#### API

- The code for the api is in the `api` directory. This piece is basically responsible for sending a random response from the array defined in `data.js`.
- The api returns a response in form of a JSON object containing contents. The content string is in form of a subset of SSML that is defined later here.

#### APP

- The project is a basic react app, and such should come with all of the standard built ins of react.
- Core logic for the project is hosted in `lib` folder.
- `content.ts` file in the lib folder is responsible for fetching and parsing content into sentences.
- `speech.ts` file contains an implementation for speech engine using the local window.speechSynthesis API.
- `useSpeech.ts` reactifies the speech engine implementation and returns the controls for playback and gives information about the currently spoken word and sentence.

# For Candidates:

## Goal

- Create an app that calls an api to fetch SSML content and then synthesizes this content into speech and renders a sentence and word UI for the same.

### Implementation Checklist:

- [ ] fetchContent: Fetch content from the API end point using a GET request.
- [ ] parseContentIntoSentences: Parse the fetched content into sentences based on rules described above (please refrain from using DOMParser or any built-in libraries to parse the fetched content)
- [ ] useSpeech: Hook that takes the current set of sentences and plays it using the speechEngine in speech.ts
- [ ] UI: A Controls component that allows you to play, pause and fetch new content. A Currently Reading component that displays the currently read sentence and word.

### SSML

- The API returns the content in form of an SSML string. This string will only contain a subset of SSML features: `<speak>`, `<p>`, `<s>`.
- The assignment only requires focus on the `<s>`element which defines the beginning and the end of the sentences.
- To complete this assignment, you must extract all the sentences from the SSML files ignoring everything else that is invalid.

#### Parsing the SSML.

- Your parser implementation should have the same output as below.
- There's not a specific method for step, it should be acomplished by using javascript native methods.

```ts
/**
 * input: "<speak><s>This is a sentence.</s><s>This is another sentence</s></speak>",
 * sentences: ['This is a sentence.', 'This is another sentence']
 *
 * input: <speak><s>This is a sentence.</s><s>This is another sentence</s>Some more text</speak>
 * sentences: ['This is a sentence.', 'This is another sentence']
 *
 * input: <speak><s>This is a sentence.</s><s>This is another sentence</s>Some more text<s>This is a longer piece of content</s></speak>
 * sentences: ['This is a sentence.', 'This is another sentence', 'This is a longer piece of content']
 */
```

### useSpeech considerations.

- The props of the createSpeechEngine function are not supposed to be any native method, but it should be custom methods created inside of the custom hook to acomplish the task.

### An example of a working project.

![Example](example.gif)
